Vehicle/Vehicle/doc/spec.md, before:

# Vehicle

## Description

A vehicle.

## Data Model

+ `id` : Entity's unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `Vehicle`.

+ `name` : Name given to this vehicle. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    + Optional

+ `description` : Vehicle description. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    + Optional

+ `location` : Vehicle's last known location represented by a GeoJSON Point. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was at that location.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).   
    + Optional
    
+ `previousLocation` : Vehicle's previous location represented by a GeoJSON Point. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was at that location.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `speed` : Vehicle's last known speed.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https:/schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Kilometers per hour
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was moving at that speed.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Optional

+ `category` : Vehicle category(ies) from the point of view of usage.
This is different than the vehicle type (car, lorry, etc.) represented by the `vehicleType` property.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https:/schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`public`, `private`, `municipalServices`) or any other needed by the applocation. 
    + Mandatory

+ `cargoWeight` : Current weight of the vehicle's cargo.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https:/schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp associated to this measurement.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Default unit: Kilograms
    + Optional

+ `vehicleIdentificationNumber` : The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is a unique serial number used by the automotive industry
to identify individual motor vehicles.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/vehicleIdentificationNumber](https://schema.org/vehicleIdentificationNumber)
    + Mandatory if `vehiclePlateIdentifier` is not defined.
    
+ `vehiclePlateIdentifier` : An identifier or code displayed on a vehicle registration plate attached to the vehicle used for official identification purposes.
The registration identifier is numeric or alphanumeric and is unique within the issuing authority's region.
    + Normative References: DATEX II `vehicleRegistrationPlateIdentifier`
    + Attribute Type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Mandatory if `vehicleIdentificationNumber` is not defined. 

+ `dateVehicleFirstRegistered` : The date of the first registration of the vehicle with the respective public authorities.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/dateVehicleFirstRegistered](https://schema.org/dateVehicleFirstRegistered)
    + Optional

+ `purchaseDate` : The date the item e.g. vehicle was purchased by the current owner.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/purchaseDate](https://schema.org/purchaseDate)
    + Optional

+ `mileageFromOdometer` : The total distance travelled by the particular vehicle since its initial production, as read from its odometer.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/mileageFromOdometer](https://schema.org/mileageFromOdometer)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp associated to this measurement.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Optional

+ `vehicleConfiguration` : A short text indicating the configuration of the vehicle, e.g. '5dr hatchback ST 2.5 MT 225 hp' or 'limited edition'.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/vehicleConfiguration](https://schema.org/vehicleConfiguration)
    + Optional

+ `color` : Vehicle's color
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/color](https://schema.org/color)
    + Optional

+ `owner` : Vehicle's owner.
    + Attribute Type: [https://schema.org/Person](https://schema.org/Person) or
    [https://schema.org/Organization](https://schema.org/Organization)
    + Optional

+ `serviceProvided` : Service(s) provided by (or associated to) the vehicle.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https:/schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`wasteContainerPickup`, `parksAndGardens`, `construction`, `lighting`,
    `cargoTransport`, `urbanTransit`, `maintenance`, `fireBrigade`, `police`).
    Or any other value needed by an specific application.
    + Optional

+ `vehicleSpecialUsage` : Indicates whether the vehicle is been used for special purposes, like commercial rental,
driving school, or as a taxi. The legislation in many countries requires this information to be revealed when offering a car for sale.
    + Normative References: [https://auto.schema.org/vehicleSpecialUsage](https://auto.schema.org/vehicleSpecialUsage)
    + Optional
    
+ `vehicleType` : Type of vehicle from the point of view of its structural characteristics.
This is different than the vehicle category (see above).
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values: The following values defined by *VehicleTypeEnum*,
    [DATEX 2 version 2.3](http://www.datex2.eu/sites/www.datex2.eu/files/DATEXIISchema_2_2_2_1.zip):
        + (`agriculturalVehicle`, `bicycle`, `bus`, `car`, `caravan`,
           `carWithCaravan`, `carWithTrailer`, `lorry`, `moped`,
           `motorcycle`, `motorcycleWithSideCar`, `motorscooter`, `tanker`, `trailer`, `van`)
    + Mandatory

+ `refVehicleModel` : Vehicle's model.
    + Attribute type: Reference to a [VehicleModel](../../VehicleModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    + Optional

+ `areaServed` : Higher level area served by this vehicle. It can be used to group vehicles per
responsible, district, neighbourhood, etc.
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `status` : Vehicle status (from the point of view of the service provided).
    + One of (`parked`, `onRoute`, `outOfOrder`, `stopped`)
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : Creation timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
## Example

    {
      "id": "vehicle:WasteManagement:1",
      "type": "Vehicle",
      "vehicleType": "lorry",
      "category": ["municipalServices"],
      "location": {
         "type": "Point",
         "coordinates": [ -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
      },
      "name": "C Recogida 1",
      "speed": 50,
      "cargoWeight": 314,
      "status": "onroute",
      "serviceProvided": ["WasteContainerPickup"],
      "areaServed": "Centro",
      "refVehicleModel": "vehiclemodel:econic",
      "vehiclePlateIdentifier": "3456ABC"
    }
    
## Test it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Issues

* Taxonomy of service types

Commit message:

Vehicle Add Heading and clarify speed and altitude (#53)

Vehicle/Vehicle/doc/spec.md, after:

# Vehicle

## Description

A vehicle.

## Data Model

+ `id` : Entity's unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `Vehicle`.

+ `name` : Name given to this vehicle. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    + Optional

+ `description` : Vehicle description. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    + Optional

+ `location` : Vehicle's last known location represented by a GeoJSON Point. Such point may contain the vehicle's altitude as the third component of the
`coordinates` array. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was at that location.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).   
    + Optional
    
+ `previousLocation` : Vehicle's previous location represented by a GeoJSON Point. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was at that location.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `speed` : Denotes the magnitude of the horizontal component of the vehicle's current velocity and is specified in Kilometers per Hour.
If provided, the value of the speed attribute must be a non-negative real number. `null` may be used if `speed` is transiently unknown for some reason.    
    + Attribute type: [Number](https:/schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Kilometers per hour
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was moving at that speed.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Optional
    
+ `heading` : Denotes the direction of travel of the vehicle and is specified in degrees,
where 0° ≤ `heading` < 360°, counting clockwise relative to the true north.  If the vehicle is stationary (i.e. the value of the `speed` attribute is `0`),
then the value of the heading attribute must be equal to `null`. `null` may be used if `heading` is transiently unknown for some reason.   
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` :  Timestamp which captures when the vehicle was heading towards such direction.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Optional

+ `category` : Vehicle category(ies) from the point of view of usage.
This is different than the vehicle type (car, lorry, etc.) represented by the `vehicleType` property.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https:/schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`public`, `private`, `municipalServices`) or any other needed by the applocation. 
    + Mandatory

+ `cargoWeight` : Current weight of the vehicle's cargo.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https:/schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp associated to this measurement.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Default unit: Kilograms
    + Optional

+ `vehicleIdentificationNumber` : The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is a unique serial number used by the automotive industry
to identify individual motor vehicles.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/vehicleIdentificationNumber](https://schema.org/vehicleIdentificationNumber)
    + Mandatory if `vehiclePlateIdentifier` is not defined.
    
+ `vehiclePlateIdentifier` : An identifier or code displayed on a vehicle registration plate attached to the vehicle used for official identification purposes.
The registration identifier is numeric or alphanumeric and is unique within the issuing authority's region.
    + Normative References: DATEX II `vehicleRegistrationPlateIdentifier`
    + Attribute Type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Mandatory if `vehicleIdentificationNumber` is not defined. 

+ `dateVehicleFirstRegistered` : The date of the first registration of the vehicle with the respective public authorities.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/dateVehicleFirstRegistered](https://schema.org/dateVehicleFirstRegistered)
    + Optional

+ `purchaseDate` : The date the item e.g. vehicle was purchased by the current owner.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/purchaseDate](https://schema.org/purchaseDate)
    + Optional

+ `mileageFromOdometer` : The total distance travelled by the particular vehicle since its initial production, as read from its odometer.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/mileageFromOdometer](https://schema.org/mileageFromOdometer)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp associated to this measurement.
        This value can also appear as a FIWARE [TimeInstant](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) or `ISO8601` (legacy).
    + Optional

+ `vehicleConfiguration` : A short text indicating the configuration of the vehicle, e.g. '5dr hatchback ST 2.5 MT 225 hp' or 'limited edition'.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/vehicleConfiguration](https://schema.org/vehicleConfiguration)
    + Optional

+ `color` : Vehicle's color
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/color](https://schema.org/color)
    + Optional

+ `owner` : Vehicle's owner.
    + Attribute Type: [https://schema.org/Person](https://schema.org/Person) or
    [https://schema.org/Organization](https://schema.org/Organization)
    + Optional

+ `serviceProvided` : Service(s) provided by (or associated to) the vehicle.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https:/schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`wasteContainerPickup`, `parksAndGardens`, `construction`, `lighting`,
    `cargoTransport`, `urbanTransit`, `maintenance`, `fireBrigade`, `police`).
    Or any other value needed by an specific application.
    + Optional

+ `vehicleSpecialUsage` : Indicates whether the vehicle is been used for special purposes, like commercial rental,
driving school, or as a taxi. The legislation in many countries requires this information to be revealed when offering a car for sale.
    + Normative References: [https://auto.schema.org/vehicleSpecialUsage](https://auto.schema.org/vehicleSpecialUsage)
    + Optional
    
+ `vehicleType` : Type of vehicle from the point of view of its structural characteristics.
This is different than the vehicle category (see above).
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values: The following values defined by *VehicleTypeEnum*,
    [DATEX 2 version 2.3](http://www.datex2.eu/sites/www.datex2.eu/files/DATEXIISchema_2_2_2_1.zip):
        + (`agriculturalVehicle`, `bicycle`, `bus`, `car`, `caravan`,
           `carWithCaravan`, `carWithTrailer`, `lorry`, `moped`,
           `motorcycle`, `motorcycleWithSideCar`, `motorscooter`, `tanker`, `trailer`, `van`)
    + Mandatory

+ `refVehicleModel` : Vehicle's model.
    + Attribute type: Reference to a [VehicleModel](../../VehicleModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    + Optional

+ `areaServed` : Higher level area served by this vehicle. It can be used to group vehicles per
responsible, district, neighbourhood, etc.
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `status` : Vehicle status (from the point of view of the service provided).
    + One of (`parked`, `onRoute`, `outOfOrder`, `stopped`)
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : Creation timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
## Example

    {
      "id": "vehicle:WasteManagement:1",
      "type": "Vehicle",
      "vehicleType": "lorry",
      "category": ["municipalServices"],
      "location": {
         "type": "Point",
         "coordinates": [ -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
      },
      "name": "C Recogida 1",
      "speed": 50,
      "cargoWeight": 314,
      "status": "onroute",
      "serviceProvided": ["WasteContainerPickup"],
      "areaServed": "Centro",
      "refVehicleModel": "vehiclemodel:econic",
      "vehiclePlateIdentifier": "3456ABC"
    }
    
## Test it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Issues

* Taxonomy of service types
