specs/StreetLighting/Streetlight/doc/spec.md, before:

# Streetlight

An entity of type `Streetlight` represents a urban streetlight. Actually, there
will be an entity of type `Streetlight` per lamp. Thus, if a particular pole
holds more than one lantern there will be as many streetlight entites as
installed lamps. As a result there might be more than one streetlight entity per
location. A `Steeetlight` entity does not contain any attribute corresponding to
structural characteristics. Such data is captured by entities of type
`StreetlightModel`.

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id` : Entity's unique identifier.

-   `type` : It must be equal to `Streetlight`.

-   `location` : Streetlight's location represented by a GeoJSON Point.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-geojson-03](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-geojson-03)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not present.

-   `address` : Civic address where the streetlight is located.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `areaServed` : Higher level area to which this streetlight belongs to. It
    can be used to group streetlights per responsible, district, neighbourhood,
    etc. + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) + Optional

-   `circuit` : The circuit to which this streetlight connects to and gets power
    from. Typically it will contain an identifier that will allow to obtain more
    information about such circuit. + Attribute type:
    [Text](http://schema.org/Text) + Optional

-   `refStreetlightModel` : Streetlight's model.

    -   Attribute type : Reference to a
        [StreetlightModel](../../StreetlightModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `refStreetlightControlCabinet` : If this streetlight is individually
    controlled, reference to the control cabinet in charge of.

    -   Attribute type : Reference to a
        [StreetlightControlCabinet](../../StreetlightControlCabinet/doc/spec.md)
        entity.
    -   Optional

-   `status` : The overall status of this street light.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`ok`, `defectiveLamp`, `columnIssue`,
        `brokenLantern`)
        -   Or any other value meaningful to the application and not covered by
            the values above.
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Mandatory

-   `powerState` : Streetlight's power state.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`on`, `off`, `low`, `bootingUp`)
    -   Optional

-   `refStreetlightGroup` : Streetlight's group, if this streetlight belongs to
    any group.

    -   Attribute type : Reference to a
        [StreetlightGroup](../../StreetlightGroup/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastLampChange` : Timestamp of the last change of lamp made. If `null`
    it will mean that the lamp has never been changed.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastSwitchingOn` : Timestamp of the last switching on.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastSwitchingOff` : Timestamp of the last switching off.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `controllingMethod` : The method used to control this streetlight.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`group`, `individual`)
    -   Optional

-   `dateModified` : Timestamp of the last update made to this entity

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateServiceStarted` : Date at which the streetlight started giving service.

    -   Attribute Type: [Date](http://schema.org/Date)
    -   Optional

-   `image` : A URL containing a photo of the streetlight.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/image](https://schema.org/image)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : Description about the streetlight.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `annotations` : A field reserved for annotations (incidences, remarks,
    etc.).

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `locationCategory` : Category of the location where the streetlight is
    placed.

    -   Attribute type:
    -   Allowed values: oneOf (`façade`, `sidewalk`, `pedestrianPath`, `road`,
        `playground`, `park`, `garden`, `bridge`, `tunnel`, `parking`,
        `centralIsland`) + Or any other value with semantics not covered by the
        above list.

-   `lanternHeight` : Lantern's height. In columns with many arms this can vary
    between streetlights. Another variation source of this property are
    wall-mounted streetlights. + Attribute type:
    [Number](https://schema.org/Number) + Default unit: Meters. + Optional

-   `illuminanceLevel` : Relative illuminance level setting.
    -   Attribute Type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    -   Allowed values: A number between 0 and 1.
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of Use

    {
      "id": "streetlight:guadalajara:4567",
      "type": "Streetlight",
      "location": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [  -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
      },
      "areaServed": "Roundabouts city entrance",
      "status": "ok",
      "refStreetlightGroup": "streetlightgroup:G345",
      "refStreetlightModel": "streetlightmodel:STEEL_Tubular_10m",
      "circuit": "C-456-A467",
      "lanternHeight": 10,
      "locationCategory" : "centralIsland",
      "powerState": "off",
      "controllingMethod": "individual",
      "dateLastLampChange": "2016-07-08T08:02:21.753Z"
    }

## Test it with a real service

## Open Issues

-   Initially is not considered practical to monitor individual power
    consumptions

Commit message:

Add refDevice attribute into the Streetlight and to the StreetlightControlCabinet models (#309)

specs/StreetLighting/Streetlight/doc/spec.md, after:

# Streetlight

An entity of type `Streetlight` represents a urban streetlight. Actually, there
will be an entity of type `Streetlight` per lamp. Thus, if a particular pole
holds more than one lantern there will be as many streetlight entites as
installed lamps. As a result there might be more than one streetlight entity per
location. A `Steeetlight` entity does not contain any attribute corresponding to
structural characteristics. Such data is captured by entities of type
`StreetlightModel`.

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id` : Entity's unique identifier.

-   `type` : It must be equal to `Streetlight`.

-   `location` : Streetlight's location represented by a GeoJSON Point.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-geojson-03](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-geojson-03)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not present.

-   `address` : Civic address where the streetlight is located.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `areaServed` : Higher level area to which this streetlight belongs to. It
    can be used to group streetlights per responsible, district, neighbourhood,
    etc. + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) + Optional

-   `circuit` : The circuit to which this streetlight connects to and gets power
    from. Typically it will contain an identifier that will allow to obtain more
    information about such circuit. + Attribute type:
    [Text](http://schema.org/Text) + Optional

-   `refStreetlightModel` : Streetlight's model.

    -   Attribute type : Reference to a
        [StreetlightModel](../../StreetlightModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `refStreetlightControlCabinet` : If this streetlight is individually
    controlled, reference to the control cabinet in charge of.

    -   Attribute type : Reference to a
        [StreetlightControlCabinet](../../StreetlightControlCabinet/doc/spec.md)
        entity.
    -   Optional

-   `status` : The overall status of this street light.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`ok`, `defectiveLamp`, `columnIssue`,
        `brokenLantern`)
        -   Or any other value meaningful to the application and not covered by
            the values above.
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Mandatory

-   `powerState` : Streetlight's power state.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`on`, `off`, `low`, `bootingUp`)
    -   Optional

-   `refDevice` : Reference to the device(s) used to monitor this streetligth.

    -   Attribute type: List of Reference to entity(ies) of type [Device](../Device/Device/doc/spec.md)
    -   Optional

-   `refStreetlightGroup` : Streetlight's group, if this streetlight belongs to
    any group.

    -   Attribute type : Reference to a
        [StreetlightGroup](../../StreetlightGroup/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastLampChange` : Timestamp of the last change of lamp made. If `null`
    it will mean that the lamp has never been changed.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastSwitchingOn` : Timestamp of the last switching on.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastSwitchingOff` : Timestamp of the last switching off.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp` : Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `controllingMethod` : The method used to control this streetlight.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`group`, `individual`)
    -   Optional

-   `dateModified` : Timestamp of the last update made to this entity

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateServiceStarted` : Date at which the streetlight started giving service.

    -   Attribute Type: [Date](http://schema.org/Date)
    -   Optional

-   `image` : A URL containing a photo of the streetlight.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/image](https://schema.org/image)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : Description about the streetlight.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `annotations` : A field reserved for annotations (incidences, remarks,
    etc.).

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `locationCategory` : Category of the location where the streetlight is
    placed.

    -   Attribute type:
    -   Allowed values: oneOf (`façade`, `sidewalk`, `pedestrianPath`, `road`,
        `playground`, `park`, `garden`, `bridge`, `tunnel`, `parking`,
        `centralIsland`) + Or any other value with semantics not covered by the
        above list.

-   `lanternHeight` : Lantern's height. In columns with many arms this can vary
    between streetlights. Another variation source of this property are
    wall-mounted streetlights. + Attribute type:
    [Number](https://schema.org/Number) + Default unit: Meters. + Optional

-   `illuminanceLevel` : Relative illuminance level setting.
    -   Attribute Type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    -   Allowed values: A number between 0 and 1.
    -   Attribute metadata:
        -   `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute
            happened.
            -   Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of Use

    {
      "id": "streetlight:guadalajara:4567",
      "type": "Streetlight",
      "location": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [  -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
      },
      "areaServed": "Roundabouts city entrance",
      "status": "ok",
      "refStreetlightGroup": "streetlightgroup:G345",
      "refStreetlightModel": "streetlightmodel:STEEL_Tubular_10m",
      "circuit": "C-456-A467",
      "lanternHeight": 10,
      "locationCategory" : "centralIsland",
      "powerState": "off",
      "controllingMethod": "individual",
      "dateLastLampChange": "2016-07-08T08:02:21.753Z"
    }

## Test it with a real service

## Open Issues

-   Initially is not considered practical to monitor individual power
    consumptions
