Weather/WeatherObserved/README.md, before:

# Weather Observed

Weather observed from the [Spanish National Meteorology Agency](http://aemet.es) (AEMET) is exposed through NGSIv2.
The Weather observed is provided by [weather stations](../../PointOfInterest/WeatherStation) owned by AEMET. 

This folder contains the following scripts:

+ `weather_observed.py` .- Contains all the logic to expose the weather observed as an NGSIv2 data model (outdated).
+ `spain_weather_observed_harvest.py` .- Performs data harvesting using AEMET's data site as origin and Orion Context Broker as destination. 

Please check data licenses at the original data sources before using this data in an application. 

## Examples of use

What was the weather observed today at 07:00 UTC in Valladolid (Spain)?

```curl -H 'fiware-service:weather' -H 'fiware-servicepath:/Spain' -H 'x-auth-token:<my_token>' "http://130.206.118.244:1027/v2/entities?type=WeatherObserved&q=dateObserved:2016-11-30T07:00;address.addressLocality:Valladolid&options=keyValues"```

```json

    [
        {
            "id": "Spain-WeatherObserved-2422-2016-11-30T08:00:00",
            "type": "WeatherObserved",
            "address":
            {
                "addressLocality": "Valladolid",
                "addressCountry": "ES"
            },
            "atmosfericPressure": 938.9,
            "dataProvider": "TEF",
            "dateObserved": "2016-11-30T07:00:00.00Z",
            "location":
            {
                "type": "Point",
                "coordinates":
                [
                    -4.754444444,
                    41.640833333
                ]
            },
            "precipitation": 0,
            "pressureTendency": 0.5,
            "relativeHumidity": 1,
            "source": "http://www.aemet.es",
            "stationCode": "2422",
            "stationName": "Valladolid",
            "temperature": 3.3,
            "windDirection": -45,
            "windSpeed": 2
        }
    ]

```

Commit message:

Add references to GSMA's Directory

Weather/WeatherObserved/README.md, after:

# Weather Observed

Weather observed from the [Spanish National Meteorology Agency](http://aemet.es) (AEMET) is exposed through NGSIv2.
The Weather observed is provided by [weather stations](../../PointOfInterest/WeatherStation) owned by AEMET. 

This folder contains the following scripts:

+ `weather_observed.py` .- Contains all the logic to expose the weather observed as an NGSIv2 data model (outdated).
+ `spain_weather_observed_harvest.py` .- Performs data harvesting using AEMET's data site as origin and Orion Context Broker as destination. 

Please check data licenses at the original data sources before using this data in an application.

## Public instance

To get access to a public instance offering weather observed data please have a look at the [GSMA's API Directory](http://apidirectory.connectedliving.gsma.com/api/weather-spain). 

The instance described [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lHP7XS-7TNzsxLa0bNFb-96JnJXh0ecIHS3-H0qMREg/edit?usp=sharing) has been set up by the FIWARE Community.

## Examples of use

What was the weather observed today at 07:00 UTC in Valladolid (Spain)?

```curl -H 'fiware-service:weather' -H 'fiware-servicepath:/Spain' -H 'x-auth-token:<my_token>' "http://130.206.118.244:1027/v2/entities?type=WeatherObserved&q=dateObserved:2016-11-30T07:00;address.addressLocality:Valladolid&options=keyValues"```

```json

    [
        {
            "id": "Spain-WeatherObserved-2422-2016-11-30T08:00:00",
            "type": "WeatherObserved",
            "address":
            {
                "addressLocality": "Valladolid",
                "addressCountry": "ES"
            },
            "atmosfericPressure": 938.9,
            "dataProvider": "TEF",
            "dateObserved": "2016-11-30T07:00:00.00Z",
            "location":
            {
                "type": "Point",
                "coordinates":
                [
                    -4.754444444,
                    41.640833333
                ]
            },
            "precipitation": 0,
            "pressureTendency": 0.5,
            "relativeHumidity": 1,
            "source": "http://www.aemet.es",
            "stationCode": "2422",
            "stationName": "Valladolid",
            "temperature": 3.3,
            "windDirection": -45,
            "windSpeed": 2
        }
    ]

```
