Weather/WeatherObserved/doc/spec.md, before:

# Weather Observed

## Description

An observation of weather conditions at a certain place and time.
This data model has been developed in cooperation with mobile operators and the [GSMA](http://www.gsma.com/connectedliving/iot-big-data/). 

## Data Model

+ `id` : Unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `WeatherObserved`.

+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `name` : Name given to the weather observed location.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    + Optional

+ `location` : Location of the weather observation represented by a GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Mandatory if `address` is not defined. 
    
+ `address` : Civic address of the weather observation. Sometimes it corresponds to a weather station address.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    + Mandatory if `location` is not present. 
    
+ `dateObserved` : The date and time of this observation in ISO8601 UTCformat. It can be represented by an specific time instant or by an ISO8601 interval. 
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime) or an ISO8601 interval represented as [Text](https://schema.org/Text). 
    + Mandatory
    
+ `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    + Optional

+ `refDevice` : A reference to the device(s) which captured this observation.
    + Attribute type: Reference to an entity of type `Device`
    + Optional

+ `refPointOfInterest` : A reference to a point of interest (usually a weather station) associated to this observation.
    + Attribute type: Reference to an entity of type `PointOfInterest`
    + Optional
    
+ `weatherType` : The observed weather type. It is represented by a comma separated list of weather statuses, for instance `overcast, lightRain`. A proposed
mapping for Spanish terms can be found [here](https://github.com/Fiware/dataModels/blob/master/Weather/WeatherForecast/spain_weather_forecast_harvest.py#L135). 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: A combination of (`clearNight`,`sunnyDay`, `slightlyCloudy`, `partlyCloudy`, `mist`, `fog`, `highClouds`, `cloudy`, `veryCloudy`,
        `overcast`, `lightRainShower`, `drizzle`, `lightRain`, `heavyRainShower`, `heavyRain`, `sleetShower`, `sleet`,
        `hailShower`, `hail`, `shower`, `lightSnow`, `snow`, `heavySnowShower`, `heavySnow`, `thunderShower`, `thunder`) or any other extended value. 
    + Optional
    
+ `dewPoint` : The dew point encoded as a number.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Celsius degrees.
    + See also: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dew_point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dew_point)
    + Optional
    
+ `visibility` : Visibility reported. 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: One of (`veryPoor`, `poor`, `moderate`, `good`, `veryGood`, `excellent`)
    + Optional

+ `temperature` : Air's temperature observed.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Degrees centigrades.
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional

+ `relativeHumidity` : Air's relative humidity observed (percentage, expressed in parts per one).
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Allowed values: A number between `0` and `1`. 
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional

+ `precipitation` : Precipitation level observed.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Liters per square meter.
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional 

+ `windDirection` : The wind direction expressed in decimal degrees compared to geographic North (measured clockwise), encoded as a Number.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Decimal degrees
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional 

+ `windSpeed` : The observed wind speed in m/s, encoded as a Number.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: meters per second
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional
    
+ `barometricPressure` : The barometric pressure observed measured in Hecto Pascals.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Hecto Pascals
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional
    
+ `pressureTendency` : Is the pressure rising or falling? It can be expressed in quantitative terms or qualitative terms. 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Allowed values, if expressed in quantitative terms: one Of (`raising`, `falling`, `steady`)
    + Optional

+ `solarRadiation` : The solar radiation observed measured in Watts per square meter.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Watts per square meter
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional
  
      
## Examples of use

```
{
            "id": "Spain-WeatherObserved-2422-2016-11-30T08:00:00",
            "type": "WeatherObserved",
            "address":
            {
                "addressLocality": "Valladolid",
                "addressCountry": "ES"
            },
            "atmosfericPressure": 938.9,
            "dataProvider": "TEF",
            "dateObserved": "2016-11-30T07:00:00.00Z",
            "location":
            {
                "type": "Point",
                "coordinates":
                [
                    -4.754444444,
                    41.640833333
                ]
            },
            "precipitation": 0,
            "pressureTendency": 0.5,
            "relativeHumidity": 1,
            "source": "http://www.aemet.es",
            "stationCode": "2422",
            "stationName": "Valladolid",
            "temperature": 3.3,
            "windDirection": -45,
            "windSpeed": 2
}

```
    
## Use it with a real service

To get access to a public instance offering weather observed data please have a look at the [GSMA's API Directory](http://apidirectory.connectedliving.gsma.com/api/weather-spain). 

The instance described [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lHP7XS-7TNzsxLa0bNFb-96JnJXh0ecIHS3-H0qMREg/edit?usp=sharing) has been set up by the FIWARE Community.

What was the weather observed today at 07:00 UTC in Valladolid (Spain)?

```curl -H 'fiware-service:weather' -H 'fiware-servicepath:/Spain' -H 'x-auth-token:<my_token>'
"http://130.206.118.244:1027/v2/entities?type=WeatherObserved
&q=dateObserved:2016-11-30T07:00;address.addressLocality:Valladolid&options=keyValues"```

## Open Issues

Commit message:

Fix empty spaces on JSON Schema. fix references to common schema. reference json schema on documentation. (#94)
* Empty line at the end of schema files

* Empty line at the end of schema files

* Weather observed schema fixed and referenced

* Final URL

Weather/WeatherObserved/doc/spec.md, after:

# Weather Observed

## Description

An observation of weather conditions at a certain place and time.
This data model has been developed in cooperation with mobile operators and the [GSMA](http://www.gsma.com/connectedliving/iot-big-data/). 

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found [here](https://fiware.github.io/dataModels/Weather/WeatherObserved/schema.json).

+ `id` : Unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `WeatherObserved`.

+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `name` : Name given to the weather observed location.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    + Optional

+ `location` : Location of the weather observation represented by a GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Mandatory if `address` is not defined. 
    
+ `address` : Civic address of the weather observation. Sometimes it corresponds to a weather station address.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    + Mandatory if `location` is not present. 
    
+ `dateObserved` : The date and time of this observation in ISO8601 UTCformat. It can be represented by an specific time instant or by an ISO8601 interval. 
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime) or an ISO8601 interval represented as [Text](https://schema.org/Text). 
    + Mandatory
    
+ `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    + Optional

+ `refDevice` : A reference to the device(s) which captured this observation.
    + Attribute type: Reference to an entity of type `Device`
    + Optional

+ `refPointOfInterest` : A reference to a point of interest (usually a weather station) associated to this observation.
    + Attribute type: Reference to an entity of type `PointOfInterest`
    + Optional
    
+ `weatherType` : The observed weather type. It is represented by a comma separated list of weather statuses, for instance `overcast, lightRain`. A proposed
mapping for Spanish terms can be found [here](https://github.com/Fiware/dataModels/blob/master/Weather/WeatherForecast/spain_weather_forecast_harvest.py#L135). 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: A combination of (`clearNight`,`sunnyDay`, `slightlyCloudy`, `partlyCloudy`, `mist`, `fog`, `highClouds`, `cloudy`, `veryCloudy`,
        `overcast`, `lightRainShower`, `drizzle`, `lightRain`, `heavyRainShower`, `heavyRain`, `sleetShower`, `sleet`,
        `hailShower`, `hail`, `shower`, `lightSnow`, `snow`, `heavySnowShower`, `heavySnow`, `thunderShower`, `thunder`) or any other extended value. 
    + Optional
    
+ `dewPoint` : The dew point encoded as a number.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Celsius degrees.
    + See also: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dew_point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dew_point)
    + Optional
    
+ `visibility` : Visibility reported. 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: One of (`veryPoor`, `poor`, `moderate`, `good`, `veryGood`, `excellent`)
    + Optional

+ `temperature` : Air's temperature observed.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Degrees centigrades.
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional

+ `relativeHumidity` : Air's relative humidity observed (percentage, expressed in parts per one).
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Allowed values: A number between `0` and `1`. 
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional

+ `precipitation` : Precipitation level observed.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Liters per square meter.
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional 

+ `windDirection` : The wind direction expressed in decimal degrees compared to geographic North (measured clockwise), encoded as a Number.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Decimal degrees
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional 

+ `windSpeed` : The observed wind speed in m/s, encoded as a Number.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: meters per second
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional
    
+ `barometricPressure` : The barometric pressure observed measured in Hecto Pascals.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Hecto Pascals
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional
    
+ `pressureTendency` : Is the pressure rising or falling? It can be expressed in quantitative terms or qualitative terms. 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Allowed values, if expressed in quantitative terms: one Of (`raising`, `falling`, `steady`)
    + Optional

+ `solarRadiation` : The solar radiation observed measured in Watts per square meter.
    + Attribute type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Default unit: Watts per square meter
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp` : optional timestamp for the observed value. It can be ommitted if the observation time is the same as the one captured
        by the `dateObserved` attribute at entity level.
    + Optional
  
      
## Examples of use

```
{
            "id": "Spain-WeatherObserved-2422-2016-11-30T08:00:00",
            "type": "WeatherObserved",
            "address":
            {
                "addressLocality": "Valladolid",
                "addressCountry": "ES"
            },
            "atmosfericPressure": 938.9,
            "dataProvider": "TEF",
            "dateObserved": "2016-11-30T07:00:00.00Z",
            "location":
            {
                "type": "Point",
                "coordinates":
                [
                    -4.754444444,
                    41.640833333
                ]
            },
            "precipitation": 0,
            "pressureTendency": 0.5,
            "relativeHumidity": 1,
            "source": "http://www.aemet.es",
            "stationCode": "2422",
            "stationName": "Valladolid",
            "temperature": 3.3,
            "windDirection": -45,
            "windSpeed": 2
}

```
    
## Use it with a real service

To get access to a public instance offering weather observed data please have a look at the [GSMA's API Directory](http://apidirectory.connectedliving.gsma.com/api/weather-spain). 

The instance described [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lHP7XS-7TNzsxLa0bNFb-96JnJXh0ecIHS3-H0qMREg/edit?usp=sharing) has been set up by the FIWARE Community.

What was the weather observed today at 07:00 UTC in Valladolid (Spain)?

```curl -H 'fiware-service:weather' -H 'fiware-servicepath:/Spain' -H 'x-auth-token:<my_token>'
"http://130.206.118.244:1027/v2/entities?type=WeatherObserved
&q=dateObserved:2016-11-30T07:00;address.addressLocality:Valladolid&options=keyValues"```

## Open Issues
