WasteManagement/WasteContainer/doc/spec.md, before:

# Waste Container

## Description

A waste container.

## Data Model

+ `id` : Unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `WasteContainer`.

+ `location` : Container's location represented by a GeoJSON Point. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Mandatory if `address` is not present.
    
+ `address`: Civic address where the container is located. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    + Mandatory if `location` is not present. 

+ `fillingLevel` : Filling level of the container (percentage, expressed in parts per one).
When the container is full it must be equal to `1.0`. When the container is empty it must be equal to `0.0`. If it is not
possible to determine the current filling level it must be equal to `null`. 
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Allowed values: Interval [0,1]. 
    + Optional
    
+ `temperature` : Temperature inside the container. 
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Default unit: Celsius Degrees.
    + Optional
    
+ `methaneConcentration` : Methane (CH4) concentration inside the container.
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Default unit: Micrograms per cubic meter.
    + Optional

+ `storedWasteOrigin` : Origin of the waste stored.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: one Of (`household`, `municipal`, `industrial`, `construction`, `hostelry`, `agriculture`, `other`)
        + Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    + Optional

+ `storedWasteKind` : Kind/s of waste stored by the container.    
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`organic`, `inorganic`, `glass`, `oil`, `plastic`, `metal`, `paper`, `batteries`, `electronics`, `hazardous`, `other`)
        + Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    + Optional

+ `storedWasteCode` : As per the regulation, waste codes which precisely identifies waste origin and kind.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: Depend on the target regulation. For Europe, check [Europe's List of Waste](http://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/framework/list.htm). 
    + Optional

+ `refWasteContainerModel` : Container's model.
    + Attribute type: Reference to a [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    + Optional
    
+ `serialNumber` : Serial number of the container.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/serialNumber](https://schema.org/serialNumber)
    + Optional

+ `regulation` : Regulation under which the container is operating.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `responsible` : Responsible for the container, i.e. entity in charge of actuating (emptying, collecting etc.). 
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `owner` : Container's owner.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `dateServiceStarted` : Date at which the container started giving service.
    + Attribute Type: [Date](http://schema.org/Date)
    + Optional
    
+ `dateLastEmptying` : Timestamp which represents when the container was emptied last time.
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `nextActuationDeadline` : Deadline for next actuation to be performed (emptying, picking up, etc.).
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `actuationHours` :  Hours suitable for performing actuations over the container.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Normative References: Value must be compliant with [https://schema.org/openingHours](https://schema.org/openingHours)

+ `dateLastCleaning` : When the container was cleaned last time.
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/Date)
    + Optional

+ `nextCleaningDeadline` : Deadline for next cleaning.
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `refWasteContainerIsle` : Isle where the container is placed. 
    + Attribute Type: Reference to a [WasteContainerIsle](../../WasteContainerIsle/doc/spec.md) entity.
    + Optional
    
+ `isleId` : Identifier (or name) of the isle where the container is placed. This attribute should be used when
entities of type `WasteContainerIsle` are not being modelled specifically. Otherwise, `refWasteContainerIsle` should be used. 
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional    
    
+ `category` : Container's category.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values:
        + All values allowed for the `category` property of [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md).
        + `fixed`. Container is fixed to a wall, support or handle.
        + `underground`. Container is placed underground.
        + `ground`. Container is placed at ground level.
        + `portable`. Container can be moved around a certain extent.
        + Any other value which captures an aspect not covered by those referred above. 

+ `status` : Container's status from the point of view of safety.
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values:
        + `ok`. Container is where it must be and stands properly.
        + `lidOpen`. Container's lid has been opened and not closed after a certain amount of time.
        + `dropped`. Container has been dropped for some reason.
        + `moved`. Container has been moved from its regular position and has not come back.
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Optional
    
+ `color` : Container's color
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values:
        + A color keyword as specified by [W3C Color Keywords](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#ColorKeywords)
        + A color value as specified by [W3C Color Data Type](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#BasicDataTypes)
    + See also: [https://schema.org/color](https://schema.org/color)
    + Optional

+ `image` : A URL containing a photo of the container.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/image](https://schema.org/image)
    + Optional
    
+ `description` : Description about the container. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    + Optional

+ `annotations` : A field reserved for annotations (incidences, remarks, etc.).
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `areaServed` : Higher level area to which the container belongs to. It can be used to group containers per
responsible, district, neighbourhood, etc.
    + Normative References: [https://pending.schema.org/areaServed](https://pending.schema.org/areaServed)
    + Optional
    
+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
saved by FIWARE's IoT Agent as per dynamic IoT data arrival. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.  
    + Optional
    
+ `deviceId` : The identifier (it could be the serial number) of the principal IoT device used to monitor this container. 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `deviceBatteryLevel` : Battery level of the principal IoT device which monitors this container.
It must be equal to `1.0` when battery is full. `0.0` when battery ìs empty.
`null` when cannot be determined. 
    + Type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Allowed values: Interval [0,1]
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.
    + Optional
            
+ `deviceProviderName` : Provider's name of the principal IoT device which monitors this container. 
    + Type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `deviceState` : State of the principal IoT device which monitors this container. Attribute value can depend on the device provider. 
    + Type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant) saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.
    + Optional
  
## Examples of use

    {
       "id": "wastecontainer:Fleming:12a",
       "type": "WasteContainer",
       "refWasteContainerModel": "wastecontainermodel:c1",
       "refWasteContainerIsle":  "wastecontainerisle:Fleming:12",
       "serialNumber": "ab56kjl",
       "location": {
         "type": "Point",
         "coordinates": [  -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
       },
       "fillingLevel" : 0.4,
       "dateLastEmptying": "2016-06-21T15:05:59.408Z",
       "dateNextActuation": "2016-06-28",
       "status": "ok",
       "category": ["underground"],
       "deviceBatteryLevel": 0.6
    }


## Test it with real services

## Open issues

* Add a `refDevice` to hold reference(s) to the IoT Device(s) bound to this entity. 
* `deviceState` : Define a taxonomy of values, which should be human readable.

Commit message:

New attribute proposed for WasteContainer: weight (#15)

WasteManagement/WasteContainer/doc/spec.md, after:

# Waste Container

## Description

A waste container.

## Data Model

+ `id` : Unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `WasteContainer`.

+ `location` : Container's location represented by a GeoJSON Point. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Mandatory if `address` is not present.
    
+ `address`: Civic address where the container is located. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    + Mandatory if `location` is not present. 

+ `fillingLevel` : Filling level of the container (percentage, expressed in parts per one).
When the container is full it must be equal to `1.0`. When the container is empty it must be equal to `0.0`. If it is not
possible to determine the current filling level it must be equal to `null`. 
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Allowed values: Interval [0,1]. 
    + Optional
    
+ `cargoWeight` : Weight of the container load.
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant) saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
            + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Default Unit: Kilograms.
    + See also: [https://schema.org/weight](https://schema.org/weight)
    + Optional
    
+ `temperature` : Temperature inside the container. 
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Default unit: Celsius Degrees.
    + Optional
    
+ `methaneConcentration` : Methane (CH4) concentration inside the container.
    + Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Default unit: Micrograms per cubic meter.
    + Optional

+ `storedWasteOrigin` : Origin of the waste stored.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: one Of (`household`, `municipal`, `industrial`, `construction`, `hostelry`, `agriculture`, `other`)
        + Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    + Optional

+ `storedWasteKind` : Kind/s of waste stored by the container.    
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`organic`, `inorganic`, `glass`, `oil`, `plastic`, `metal`, `paper`, `batteries`, `electronics`, `hazardous`, `other`)
        + Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    + Optional

+ `storedWasteCode` : As per the regulation, waste codes which precisely identifies waste origin and kind.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: Depend on the target regulation. For Europe, check [Europe's List of Waste](http://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/framework/list.htm). 
    + Optional

+ `refWasteContainerModel` : Container's model.
    + Attribute type: Reference to a [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    + Optional
    
+ `serialNumber` : Serial number of the container.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/serialNumber](https://schema.org/serialNumber)
    + Optional

+ `regulation` : Regulation under which the container is operating.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `responsible` : Responsible for the container, i.e. entity in charge of actuating (emptying, collecting etc.). 
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `owner` : Container's owner.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `dateServiceStarted` : Date at which the container started giving service.
    + Attribute Type: [Date](http://schema.org/Date)
    + Optional
    
+ `dateLastEmptying` : Timestamp which represents when the container was emptied last time.
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `nextActuationDeadline` : Deadline for next actuation to be performed (emptying, picking up, etc.).
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `actuationHours` :  Hours suitable for performing actuations over the container.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Normative References: Value must be compliant with [https://schema.org/openingHours](https://schema.org/openingHours)

+ `dateLastCleaning` : When the container was cleaned last time.
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/Date)
    + Optional

+ `nextCleaningDeadline` : Deadline for next cleaning.
    + Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `refWasteContainerIsle` : Isle where the container is placed. 
    + Attribute Type: Reference to a [WasteContainerIsle](../../WasteContainerIsle/doc/spec.md) entity.
    + Optional
    
+ `isleId` : Identifier (or name) of the isle where the container is placed. This attribute should be used when
entities of type `WasteContainerIsle` are not being modelled specifically. Otherwise, `refWasteContainerIsle` should be used. 
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional    
    
+ `category` : Container's category.
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values:
        + All values allowed for the `category` property of [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md).
        + `fixed`. Container is fixed to a wall, support or handle.
        + `underground`. Container is placed underground.
        + `ground`. Container is placed at ground level.
        + `portable`. Container can be moved around a certain extent.
        + Any other value which captures an aspect not covered by those referred above. 

+ `status` : Container's status from the point of view of safety.
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values:
        + `ok`. Container is where it must be and stands properly.
        + `lidOpen`. Container's lid has been opened and not closed after a certain amount of time.
        + `dropped`. Container has been dropped for some reason.
        + `moved`. Container has been moved from its regular position and has not come back.
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.    
    + Optional
    
+ `color` : Container's color
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed Values:
        + A color keyword as specified by [W3C Color Keywords](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#ColorKeywords)
        + A color value as specified by [W3C Color Data Type](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#BasicDataTypes)
    + See also: [https://schema.org/color](https://schema.org/color)
    + Optional

+ `image` : A URL containing a photo of the container.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/image](https://schema.org/image)
    + Optional
    
+ `description` : Description about the container. 
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    + Optional

+ `annotations` : A field reserved for annotations (incidences, remarks, etc.).
    + Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `areaServed` : Higher level area to which the container belongs to. It can be used to group containers per
responsible, district, neighbourhood, etc.
    + Normative References: [https://pending.schema.org/areaServed](https://pending.schema.org/areaServed)
    + Optional
    
+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
saved by FIWARE's IoT Agent as per dynamic IoT data arrival. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.  
    + Optional
    
+ `deviceId` : The identifier (it could be the serial number) of the principal IoT device used to monitor this container. 
    + Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `deviceBatteryLevel` : Battery level of the principal IoT device which monitors this container.
It must be equal to `1.0` when battery is full. `0.0` when battery ìs empty.
`null` when cannot be determined. 
    + Type: [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    + Allowed values: Interval [0,1]
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant)
        saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.
    + Optional
            
+ `deviceProviderName` : Provider's name of the principal IoT device which monitors this container. 
    + Type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional
    
+ `deviceState` : State of the principal IoT device which monitors this container. Attribute value can depend on the device provider. 
    + Type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `dateUpdated`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
        + `TimeInstant` : [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/develop/README.md#TimeInstant) saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference implementations. 
              + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production environmments where the attribute type
    is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.
    + Optional
  
## Examples of use

    {
       "id": "wastecontainer:Fleming:12a",
       "type": "WasteContainer",
       "refWasteContainerModel": "wastecontainermodel:c1",
       "refWasteContainerIsle":  "wastecontainerisle:Fleming:12",
       "serialNumber": "ab56kjl",
       "location": {
         "type": "Point",
         "coordinates": [  -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
       },
       "fillingLevel" : 0.4,
       "dateLastEmptying": "2016-06-21T15:05:59.408Z",
       "dateNextActuation": "2016-06-28",
       "status": "ok",
       "category": ["underground"],
       "deviceBatteryLevel": 0.6
    }


## Test it with real services

## Open issues

* Add a `refDevice` to hold reference(s) to the IoT Device(s) bound to this entity. 
* `deviceState` : Define a taxonomy of values, which should be human readable.
